# BDWatchdog

This repository acts as an umbrella project for different subprojects 
that can be combined to have a monitoring and profiling framework 
capable of producing resource usage information on a process-level 
as well as detailed profiling of Java-based applications in the form 
of flame graphs. In addition, auxiliar tools have been developed such 
as a web application to visualize the data generated, a report 
generator to automatically create reports on how resources where used 
and a timestamp generator used to bound experimentation runs.

Thanks to the process-based monitoring approach, this framework can be 
deployed on newer virtualization technologies like containers, acting 
as a base for other projects that may need real-time container resource 
monitorization.

* If you need more information regarding the process-level monitoring 
check out the MetricsFeeder subproject.

* If you want to know more about real-time java profiling with flame 
graphs, check out the FlamegraphsGenerator subproject.

* If you want to know how many of the plots presented on this umbrella 
project have been generated, you can check out the TimeseriesViewer 
subproject, which hosts a web application to visualize the time series 
data generated by the MetricsFeeder subproject and the flame graphs 
created from the data of the FlamegraphsGenerator subproject, as well 
as other utilities such as integration with the timestamps from the 
TimestampsSnitch.

* If you want to know more about the timestamp generation used to 
delimit the time duration of experiments and tests, visit the 
TimestampsSnitch subproject.

* If you are curious about how the resource time series can be 
crunched in search on interesting experimentation data, you can 
check out the ReportsGenerator subporject.

For more information on this project's features you can visit this 
[webpage](http://bdwatchdog.dec.udc.es/monitoring/index.html) or 
even read the full length journal 
[article](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17316096) published in Future Generation Computer Systems
